---
layout: post
title: "Am I OK?"
date: 2018-08-25
categories: [Emotions]
author: "Scarlett"
comments: true
comments_locked: false
---
Post natal depression. It’s the buzz phrase that surrounds early motherhood. When you’ve arrive home with your little bundle health visitors are wired to every little comment you make and jump on them like a dog with a bone. Now I realise why. 

I remember saying to my HV on the phone in the hellish days of silent reflux and little sleep, that my baby was happier with Tom than with me. She immediately asked me what I meant by that and employed a pitiful tone down the wire (she was and is a fantastic HV and this is by no way a criticism, quite the opposite.) I brushed off my comment and said that he was more relaxed than me and therefore so was bubba. She left it at that and so did I. 

I was depressed. Post nataly depressed. Only now, looking back and having reached rock bottom and come back up, do I realise that. 

How on earth do you know how you should feel? Your vagina, bottom and everything in between have been ripped apart over hours, you arrive home with no manual and a tiny creature requiring your every breathing moment and feeding from you like the cutest leech you’ve ever seen. Of course I felt low at points. Is there an honest mama out there who didn’t feel like that from time to time? 

The problem was it wasn’t from time to time, it was most of the time. I cried everyday and leant on Tom and my mum like my life depended on it and I think it did. I was sad more than I was happy. I got through the day keeping myself as busy as possible. A didn’t sleep in the day in less in the sling so we were literally joined at the hip if not the breast. 

I think the overriding way I was feeling was lost. The more A thrived the more I shrivelled away. Everything I was giving him was coming from me. My soul was being lost and I couldn’t remember who I was. I didn’t care that I was the slimmest I’ve ever been: what did it matter when I didn’t exist apart from as a mother? 

Why didn’t I seek help? Why did I let myself reach breaking point before shouting out? **Because I didn’t know how I should feel. I didn’t want to fail. I wanted to be ok. I WAS IN LOVE WITH MY CHILD SO SURELY I WAS FINE?**

Once rock bottom was achieved there was no other way but up. I got help with my bubba 4 hours a week, upped the bottles instead of breast and started doing things for me. Little things in the diary to get my sense of self back. 

In hindsight I wish someone had just told me I wasn’t ok. Told me to chat to the doctor and get some help. Maybe that would have been all I needed. After a holiday with family and some really honest conversations I knew I was going to be ok - I had been given the gift of extra sleep from loving relatives and seeing A thrive around them gave me joy and perhaps a little perspective. 

This is the most important blog I will write because I know I’m not alone. I know there are lots of women who don’t know if how they are feeling is normal. When your world is changed and shifted so monumentally how can you possibly know what the new normal might feel like? 

Looking back over the first few months I realise that you are miserable and feeling hopeless more often than you are happy it isn’t ‘normal’. It is, however, so easy to get support. Tap into your health visiting team or your local doctor or someone outside the family with a little distance and perspective. 

Just reach out. Hand over your baby to someone else for as long as it takes to talk to someone. You matter as much as your little one does.

Happy mama happy baba. 

