---
layout: post
title: "Mum Bod"
date: 2018-08-06
categories: [Confidence]
author: "Jilly"
comments: true
comments_locked: false
---

I was lucky enough to be a mum that carried my baby for **42 weeks**! YAY me! Everyone kept saying, 

>> “You are carrying all in the front. It’s amazing that you haven’t gained weight anywhere else.”

I would smugly think “Yes, I am looking great! I’ll be back to the old me in no time.”

I had read that after having a baby you still look about 6 months pregnant for a while, I was ready….or so I thought. 

I have always struggled to be happy in my body and because of my height, only gaining a few pounds makes a huge difference. So when I got pregnant I finally had an excuse to have a tummy and I loved it. I wore tight dresses and shirts to show off my growing bump and I finally got compliments. I was never someone people complimented I was always just there in the background. So this felt great! But when I had my baby and I still had my bump, I dreaded that moment when someone would ask when I was due. I never went anywhere without either my baby or a baggy jumper and let’s not talk about the variety of black leggings I wore. 

I was told that if you breastfeed you burn an extra 600 calories so you can pretty much eat what you want and lose weight. **WHAT? That’s amazing! Sign me up!** Well I ate what I wanted and HELLO CHOCOLATE! After two months it was no surprise (well it was to me) that I didn’t lose a pound. What happened to this magic weight loss? People commented on how great I looked, but to be fair last time they saw me I was 8 months pregnant and the size of a house. So I messaged my sister and she said she didn’t lose any weight until she **stopped** breastfeeding. Great I have another 10 months to go before I lose weight. At this point my body was slowly getting over the trauma of birth and I could start exercising again. 

I always loved exercising so back to the mat I went. Baby and I were in a routine where she would do her baby exercises on her mat and I would have 30 minutes to sweat. Unfortunately, I decided because I was burning even more calories it was okay to eat my chocolate still. After 4 weeks my shape had changed but I still hadn’t lost a pound. 

Now, I was in the grove and loving our exercise routine but then tragedy struck and I badly burnt my hand with some boiling water. So this meant no exercise for me for about a month. I needed to change my tactic because I needed to start losing weight because that’s the only way you can feel good about yourself, right? Wrong! I started to think about the reasons to lose weight. 

>> *Health: yes I want to be healthy. I didn’t want to jump on a fad diet because I know what I’m like, I won’t be happy.*

>> *Compliments: would anyone ever say how good I looked again or was that just when I was pregnant.*

>> *Self-worth: Can I be a good mum if I am over weight?*

I spent some time soul and realised yes I needed to lose some weight for me and I did. I managed to lose a stone and I felt positive that I was 5 pounds away from my pre-pregnancy weight. But my clothes still weren’t fitting the way they used to. Things had changed. From breastfeeding my boobs change shape throughout the day, my tummy is still lacking muscles and my hips are just that much wider. After 7 months, I am finally happy with my body. Yes there are some rolls and my tummy is still wobbly and a bit out there but I carried a baby and I wear it like a badge of honour. 

I still try to exercise every now and then but now baby moves and it’s not so easy to find the time. My exercise includes picking her up, lifting her up and down to the *Grand Ol’ Duke of York* and dancing around with her. I may not have the perfect body but my mum bod is perfect for me. 
